feat(docs): simple token transfer tutorial (#4442)
iotaledger/iota: docs/content/developer/getting-started/simple-token-transfer.mdx

## Simple Token Transfer Architecture Overview 

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Sender
    participant Contract
    participant Treasury
    participant Recipient

    Sender->>Contract: init(witness, ctx)
    Contract->>Treasury: create_currency(witness)
    Treasury-->>Contract: Returns TreasuryCap, Metadata
    Contract->>Sender: transfer(treasury, sender)

    Sender->>Contract: mint(treasury_cap, amount, recipient, ctx)
    Contract->>Treasury: mint(treasury_cap, amount)
    Treasury-->>Contract: Returns Coin
    Contract->>Recipient: transfer(coin, recipient)

    Sender->>Contract: transfer(token, amount, recipient, ctx)
    Contract->>Treasury: split(token, amount)
    Treasury-->>Contract: Returns CoinToTransfer
    Contract->>Recipient: transfer(CoinToTransfer, recipient)

    Sender->>Contract: balances(token)
    Contract-->>Sender: Returns token.balance
```

> ### Prerequisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) >=v20.18.0
- [npx](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npx) >=10.8.2
- [iota](https://github.com/iotaledger/iota/releases) >=0.7.3 

## Create a Move Package

Run the following command to create a Move package

```bash

> iota move new token-transfer

Reviewer: `Invalid package name. Package name must start with a lowercase letter and consist only of lowercase letters, numbers, and underscores.`
```suggestion
iota move new token_transfer
```

```

> ### Configure the IOTA CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure the IOTA CLI
```

> Before publishing the package, you need to configure your IOTA CLI with your wallet details.

Reviewer: Please add an explanation as to why this is necessary

Author: ok, I will update in the upcoming commit.

> #### Navigate to the IOTA configuration directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Navigate to the IOTA configuration directory
```

```bash
cd ~/.iota/iota_config/
```

> ### Update the following files 

Reviewer: Please use a more descriptive header. Update the Active Address, for example.

Author: ok, I will update in the upcoming commit.

`iota.keystore`: Replace the existing private key with your IOTA wallet private key.

`client.yaml`: Replace the `active_address` field with your IOTA wallet address.

> This will generate a new Move package in a folder named token-transfer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Shouldn't this go on line ~52?

Author: Yes, my bad.

 
```typescript reference
https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/components/Transfer.tsx#L1
```

#### [`Mint.tsx`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/components/Mint.tsx#L1-L144)

This component allows users to mint new tokens to a specified address. Users can provide the recipient's address and the amount of tokens to mint. The `Mint.tsx` component interacts with the blockchain's treasury cap and package ID to execute the minting operation. This functionality is critical for applications that require dynamic token issuance, such as token reward systems or initial token distribution.

```typescript reference
https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/components/Mint.tsx#L1-L144
```

## Usage example

### Dashboard

- The dashboard of the token transfer app, displaying different operations like Transfer and Mint.

![Dashboard](/img/developer/getting-started/token-transfer/Dashboard.png)

> ### Connect IOTA wallet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Connect IOTA Wallet
```

- Click on the Connect wallet button at the top right corner to connect your IOTA wallet.

![Connect IOTA wallet](/img/developer/getting-started/token-transfer/wallet-connect.png)

> ### Wallet connected

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Wallet Connected
```

> - When the wallet gets connected to the app the address of the selected account will be displayed at top right  corner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the wallet is connected to the app, the address of the selected account will be displayed at the top right corner.
```

![Wallet connected](/img/developer/getting-started/token-transfer/wallet-connected.png)

> ### Minting token

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Minting Tokens
```

> - Click the Mint button to mint the token. Please note that the account used for minting must be the same as the one used during the publication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the Mint button to mint the token. The account used for minting must be the same as the one used during the publication.
```

![Minting token](/img/developer/getting-started/token-transfer/minting-token.png)

> ### Wallet transaction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Wallet Transaction
```

> - The minted amount will be displayed in the balance changes section of the wallet popup, approve the transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The minted amount will be displayed in the balance changes section of the wallet popup, so you can approve the transaction.
```

![Wallet transaction](/img/developer/getting-started/token-transfer/wallet-transaction.png)

> ### Transaction successfull

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Transaction Successfull
```

> - Once you approve the mint transaction, an alert will appear indicating 'Transaction Successful'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you approve the mint transaction, an alert will appear indicating 'Transaction Successful'.
```

![Transaction successfull](/img/developer/getting-started/token-transfer/transaction-successfull.png)

> ### Wallet check

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Wallet Check
```

> - After successfull transaction of mint you can check the balance have increase in the wallet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a successful mint transaction, you can check if the balance has increased in the wallet.
```

![Wallet check](/img/developer/getting-started/token-transfer/wallet-check.png)

> ### Check balance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Check Balance
```

> - Click on the Check balance button to check the token balance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click on the `Check balance` button to check the token balance.
```

---
description: Tutorial for simple token transfer
tags:
  - explanation
  - tutorial
---

# Simple Token Transfer Tutorial

> In this tutorial, we will walk you through the process of building a simple token transfer dApp using the IOTA Move language and the IOTA dApp kit. You will learn how to create a contract that enables token transfers on the IOTA blockchain and how to integrate it with a frontend application that interacts with the contract's functions. The tutorial covers everything from contract creation to frontend development, giving you a hands-on understanding of how token transfers work within the IOTA ecosystem. By the end, you'll have a fully functional dApp that allows users to transfer tokens effortlessly.

Reviewer 2: In this tutorial, we will walk you through the process of building a simple token transfer dApp using the IOTA Move language and the IOTA dApp kit. You will learn how to create a move package that enables token transfers on the IOTA blockchain and how to integrate it with a frontend application that interacts with the package functions. The tutorial covers everything from move package creation to frontend development, giving you a hands-on understanding of how token transfers work within the IOTA ecosystem. By the end, you'll have a fully functional dApp that allows users to transfer tokens effortlessly.

Reviewer 2: I changed the use of contract, to package. Maybe I should have used the suggestion feature instead.

Author: Ok, I will update it in the next commit.

## Simple Token Transfer Architecture Overview 

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Sender
    participant Contract
    participant Treasury
    participant Recipient

    Sender->>Contract: init(witness, ctx)
    Contract->>Treasury: create_currency(witness)
    Treasury-->>Contract: Returns TreasuryCap, Metadata
    Contract->>Sender: transfer(treasury, sender)

    Sender->>Contract: mint(treasury_cap, amount, recipient, ctx)
    Contract->>Treasury: mint(treasury_cap, amount)
    Treasury-->>Contract: Returns Coin
    Contract->>Recipient: transfer(coin, recipient)

    Sender->>Contract: transfer(token, amount, recipient, ctx)
    Contract->>Treasury: split(token, amount)
    Treasury-->>Contract: Returns CoinToTransfer
    Contract->>Recipient: transfer(CoinToTransfer, recipient)

    Sender->>Contract: balances(token)
    Contract-->>Sender: Returns token.balance
```

## Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) >=v20.18.0
- [npx](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npx) >=10.8.2
- [iota](https://github.com/iotaledger/iota/releases) >=0.7.3 

## Create a Move Package

Run the following command to create a Move package

```bash
iota move new token_transfer
```

> This will generate a new Move package in a folder named token-transfer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will generate a new Move package in a folder named token_transfer.
```

> This will generate a new Move package in a folder named token_transfer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will generate a new Move package in a folder named `token_transfer`.
```

## Configure the IOTA CLI

To run the `mint` function from the frontend app, you must be the owner of the package; otherwise, you cannot execute the function. To become the owner, you need to publish the package, and this process can only be done through the CLI. Note that the CLI and browser wallet extension use separate accounts. In the CLI, you can update the active address and private key to match the account used in the browser wallet extension. By aligning these accounts, you ensure the same account is used in both the CLI and the wallet extension, enabling seamless transactions in your frontend app.

Before publishing the package, you need to configure your IOTA CLI with your wallet details.

> ### Navigate to the IOTA configuration directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Navigate to the IOTA Configuration Directory
```

```bash
cd ~/.iota/iota_config/
```

### Update the Private Key and Active Address

`iota.keystore`: Replace the existing private key with your IOTA wallet private key.

`client.yaml`: Replace the `active_address` field with your IOTA wallet address.

### Package Overview

#### [`init`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/ea71112c1156d1885567353fee0a03e09308e293/sources/token_transfer.move#L9-L13)

- Executes at the time of publication of the package.
- Takes `MY_TOKEN` as a witness and the transaction context (ctx).

> - Uses the `coin::create_currency` function to create the token by specifying the name, symbol, and decimal precision of the token.

Reviewer: Please add a link to https://docs.iota.org/references/framework/iota-framework/coin#0x2_coin_create_currency

Author: Sure.

- The `coin::create_currency` function returns a TreasuryCap, which allows the owner to mint and transfer the token, and the metadata of the token.

> - Transfers the metadata to the owner of the contract using `transfer::public_freeze_object(metadata)` and `transfer::public_transfer(treasury, ctx.sender())`.

Reviewer: Please add links to each ref, https://docs.iota.org/references/framework/iota-framework/transfer#0x2_transfer_public_freeze_object, https://docs.iota.org/references/framework/iota-framework/transfer#function-public_transfer, https://docs.iota.org/references/framework/iota-framework/tx_context#0x2_tx_context_sender

Author: Sure.

```move reference
https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/ea71112c1156d1885567353fee0a03e09308e293/sources/token_transfer.move#L9-L13
```

#### [`mint`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/ea71112c1156d1885567353fee0a03e09308e293/sources/token_transfer.move#L15-L23)

- Mints the token and transfers it to the recipient address.
- Can only be called by the owner of the contract.
- Creates a new object of the `MY_TOKEN` token using the TreasuryCap.
- The TreasuryCap address (which was generated during the contract's publication) is required to mint the tokens.
- Transfers the minted tokens to the recipient after they are created.

```move reference
https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/ea71112c1156d1885567353fee0a03e09308e293/sources/token_transfer.move#L15-L23
```

#### [`transfer`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/ea71112c1156d1885567353fee0a03e09308e293/sources/token_transfer.move#L25-L33)

- Transfers the token from the caller address to the recipient address.
- Requires the correct token object address that is owned by the caller.

> - The function first uses the `coin::split` function to split the specified amount from the token and then uses `transfer::public_transfer` to transfer the split tokens to the recipient.

Reviewer: please add links to the refs

Author: Ok.

```move reference
https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/ea71112c1156d1885567353fee0a03e09308e293/sources/token_transfer.move#L25-L33
```

#### [`balance`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/ea71112c1156d1885567353fee0a03e09308e293/sources/token_transfer.move#L34-L37)

- Returns the balance of the token for the specified owner.

> - Requires passing the token address to retrieve the balance.WW

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Requires passing the token address to retrieve the balance.
```

> - Uses `coin::balance` to query the balance and returns the value held by the coin object.

Reviewer: Link to ref

Author: Sure.

```move reference
https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/ea71112c1156d1885567353fee0a03e09308e293/sources/token_transfer.move#L34-L37
```

Navigate to the [`source/token-transfer.move`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/ea71112c1156d1885567353fee0a03e09308e293/sources/token_transfer.move#L1-L38) file and paste the following code:

```move reference
https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/ea71112c1156d1885567353fee0a03e09308e293/sources/token_transfer.move#L1-L38
``` 

### Build the Package

> Once the contract is ready, build the package by running:

Reviewer: Link to https://docs.iota.org/developer/getting-started/build-test

Author: Updating it.

```bash
iota move build
```

### Publish the Package

> Publish the package to the IOTA testnet using the following command:

Reviewer: link to https://docs.iota.org/developer/getting-started/publish

Author: Sure.

> iota move build

Reviewer: This command fails as the module is called `token_transfer_tutorial` instead of `token_transfer`, please fix it.

Author: noted!

```bash 
iota client publish
```

After publishing, you will receive a detailed transaction output. Here’s an example:

> ```bash

Reviewer: Please hide this behind a `<details>` tag.

Author: Sure.

The dApp kit is designed to streamline the connection between your frontend and the IOTA blockchain, handling important tasks like wallet integration, transaction signing, and communication with your deployed contract. If you’re new to the dApp kit, you can consult its documentation for comprehensive instructions on how to set it up and use its features to create a smooth frontend experience.

In this section, we’ll walk you through the process of configuring the frontend and linking it to the smart contract we created earlier. By the end, you’ll have a fully functional dApp that enables users to interact with your IOTA-based token transfer contract directly from the frontend.

### Setup 

Run the following the command to setup the initial IOTA dApp.

```bash
pnpm add @iota/dapp-kit @iota/iota-sdk @tanstack/react-query
```

### Code Structure

> - Components: Contains the components listed below for the UI :

Reviewer: This sentence isn't very clear, could you expand it a bit?

Author: Sure, I will update it in the next commit.

> Run the following the command to setup the initial IOTA dApp.

Reviewer: Since we're in the getting started section, please add more details on what the user needs to do to get this up and running, like pnpm init, create the following directories with the following files, as well as a link to the FE folder of the repo so they can verify/check if anything's wrong

Author: Will add it in the next commit.

   - [`Balance.tsx`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/components/Balance.tsx#L1-L27)
   - [`Buttons.tsx`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/components/Buttons.tsx#L1-L27)
   - [`Mint.tsx`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/components/Mint.tsx#L1-L144)
   - [`Transfer.tsx`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/components/Transfer.tsx#L1)
- Utils:
   - [`balance.ts`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/utils/balance.ts#L1-L26)
   - [`mint.ts`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/utils/mint.ts#L1-L36)
   - [`transfer.ts`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/utils/transfer.ts#L1-L37)

### Setting Up Network Configuration

> Add the following variables in the `networkConfig.ts` file:

Reviewer: this file should be mentioned in the code structure section

Author: will add in the next commit.

- `packageId`: The package ID for the smart contract.
- `coinAddress`: The address of the token contract.
- `treasuryCap`: The treasury cap address used for minting tokens.

To retrieve this information, visit the testnet explorer, search for your IOTA wallet address, and review the recent transactions.

```typescript reference
https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/ea71112c1156d1885567353fee0a03e09308e293/frontend/src/networkConfig.ts#L1-L22
```

> #### [`App.tsx`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/App.tsx#L1-L58)

Reviewer: This file should be mentioned in the code structure section

Author: will add in the next commit.

 
```typescript reference
https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/0bbe1cc9cef5219c6f29b8cef9d1022ab0c5ddc5/frontend/src/components/Transfer.tsx#L1-L94
```

#### [`Mint.tsx`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/components/Mint.tsx#L1-L144)

This component allows users to mint new tokens to a specified address. Users can provide the recipient's address and the amount of tokens to mint. The `Mint.tsx` component interacts with the blockchain's treasury cap and package ID to execute the minting operation. This functionality is critical for applications that require dynamic token issuance, such as token reward systems or initial token distribution.

```typescript reference
https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/0bbe1cc9cef5219c6f29b8cef9d1022ab0c5ddc5/frontend/src/components/Mint.tsx#L1-L79
```

> ## Usage example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Usage Example
```

Let’s now set up the frontend application using the [IOTA dApp kit](../../ts-sdk/dapp-kit/index.mdx). This kit provides a collection of tools and components that simplify integrating IOTA-based smart contracts into your web applications. By leveraging the dApp kit, you can efficiently build user interfaces that enable users to interact with the blockchain, such as sending transactions, querying contracts, and displaying data.

The dApp kit is designed to streamline the connection between your frontend and the IOTA blockchain, handling important tasks like wallet integration, transaction signing, and communication with your deployed contract. If you’re new to the dApp kit, you can consult its documentation for comprehensive instructions on how to set it up and use its features to create a smooth frontend experience.

In this section, we’ll walk you through the process of configuring the frontend and linking it to the smart contract we created earlier. By the end, you’ll have a fully functional dApp that enables users to interact with your IOTA-based token transfer contract directly from the frontend.

### Setup 

Run the following the command to setup the initial IOTA dApp.

> ```bash

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```npm2yarn
````

pnpm create @iota/create-dapp
```

> This will setup an initial IOTA dApp including all the necessary library.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
This will set up an initial IOTA dApp, including all the necessary dependencies. However, keep in mind that you will still need to install the dependencies by running the following command:

```npm2yarn
pnpm i
```
````

Since it's a getting-started tutorial, we need to provide all the instructions, as simple/obvious as they may sound.

### Code Structure

- Components: It contains the separate react components for different operations such as check balance, minting tokens and transfer tokens.
   - [`Balance.tsx`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/components/Balance.tsx#L1-L27)
   - [`Buttons.tsx`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/components/Buttons.tsx#L1-L27)
   - [`Mint.tsx`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/components/Mint.tsx#L1-L144)
   - [`Transfer.tsx`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/components/Transfer.tsx#L1)

> - Utils:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Utils**: The utils directory contains reusable utility functions that handle common tasks such as minting and transferring tokens.
```

   - [`balance.ts`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/utils/balance.ts#L1-L26)
   - [`mint.ts`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/utils/mint.ts#L1-L36)
   - [`transfer.ts`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/utils/transfer.ts#L1-L37)
- [`networkConfig.ts`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/ea71112c1156d1885567353fee0a03e09308e293/frontend/src/networkConfig.ts#L1-L22)

> - [`App.tsx`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/App.tsx#L1-L58)

Reviewer: The directory structure may be clearer if we move this to the top of the list.

Author: sure

### Setting Up Network Configuration

Add the following variables in the `networkConfig.ts` file:
- `packageId`: The package ID for the smart contract.
- `coinAddress`: The address of the token contract.
- `treasuryCap`: The treasury cap address used for minting tokens.

To retrieve this information, visit the testnet explorer, search for your IOTA wallet address, and review the recent transactions.

```typescript reference
https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/ea71112c1156d1885567353fee0a03e09308e293/frontend/src/networkConfig.ts#L1-L22
```

> #### [`App.tsx`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/App.tsx#L1-L58)

Reviewer: WDYT about moving the App.tsx file to the end of the tutorial? This way, you can elaborate on the components (i.e., the pieces), and then explain their inclusion in App.tsx?

Author: yes, sure

The `App.tsx` file integrates the components and provides the main structure of the frontend application.

```typescript reference
https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/App.tsx#L1-L58
```

> #### [`Buttons.tsx`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/components/Buttons.tsx#L1-L27)
> 
> The `components` folder contains four primary components, each handling a specific functionality. Here's a detailed description of each component:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Components

The `components` folder contains four primary components, each handling a specific functionality. Here's a detailed description of each component:

#### [`Buttons.tsx`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/components/Buttons.tsx#L1-L27)

The `Buttons.tsx` file renders a vertical layout of three customizable buttons ("Transfer," "Mint," and "Check Balance") using Radix UI's `Button`, `Container`, and `Flex` components. Each button toggles a specific state (`transferField`, `mintField`, or `showBalance`) while resetting the others, enabling functionality for switching between actions in the app.
```
Please check the description.

Author: sure

```typescript reference
https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/components/Buttons.tsx#L1-L27
```

#### [`Balance.tsx`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/components/Balance.tsx#L1-L27)

This component is designed to fetch and display the balance of the connected wallet for the specified token. It utilizes the blockchain's API to retrieve the token's balance and type, presenting this information to the user in a simple and visually appealing manner. This feature helps users monitor their token holdings without navigating away from the app. It also ensures that data is updated in real time, enhancing the user experience.

```typescript reference
https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/components/Balance.tsx#L1-L27
```

#### [`Transfer.tsx`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/components/Transfer.tsx#L1)

> The `Transfer.tsx` component handles the process of transferring tokens from the connected wallet to a recipient address. Users can input the recipient's address and the number of tokens they wish to transfer. This component also manages transaction signing and execution using the dApp kit, ensuring that the transfer operation is seamless and secure. Error handling is built in to notify users of any issues during the transaction process.

Reviewer: Please add a line or two about the useIotaClient, useSignAndExecuteTransaction functions

Author: sure

 
```typescript reference
https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/0bbe1cc9cef5219c6f29b8cef9d1022ab0c5ddc5/frontend/src/components/Transfer.tsx#L1-L94
```

#### [`Mint.tsx`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/components/Mint.tsx#L1-L144)

This component allows users to mint new tokens to a specified address. Users can provide the recipient's address and the amount of tokens to mint. The `Mint.tsx` component interacts with the blockchain's treasury cap and package ID to execute the minting operation. This functionality is critical for applications that require dynamic token issuance, such as token reward systems or initial token distribution.

```typescript reference
https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/0bbe1cc9cef5219c6f29b8cef9d1022ab0c5ddc5/frontend/src/components/Mint.tsx#L1-L79
```

- For more details you can refer the [`Frontend repository`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/frontend).

> 

Reviewer: Please add a Putting it all together section that explains how all the files come in to play to form the FE. You an move the App.tsx section here to do so. 

As well, please add a line explaining how to run the FE app with `pnpm dev`

Author: will update it in the next commit

#### [`Mint.tsx`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/components/Mint.tsx#L1-L144)

This component allows users to mint new tokens to a specified address. Users can provide the recipient's address and the amount of tokens to mint. The `Mint.tsx` component interacts with the blockchain's treasury cap and package ID to execute the minting operation. This functionality is critical for applications that require dynamic token issuance, such as token reward systems or initial token distribution.

```typescript reference
https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/0bbe1cc9cef5219c6f29b8cef9d1022ab0c5ddc5/frontend/src/components/Mint.tsx#L1-L79
```

#### [`App.tsx`](https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/App.tsx#L1-L58)

The `App.tsx` file integrates the components and provides the main structure of the frontend application.

```typescript reference
https://github.com/iota-community/token-transfer-tutorial/blob/3e2023a7c29aa5cf43305c6c42bd463a7a789750/frontend/src/App.tsx#L1-L58
```

### Putting it all together

> The frontend app for the token transfer tutorial is designed with several components: `Balance.tsx` displays the token balance of the connected wallet by calling the `balance` function in `balance.ts`; `Button.tsx` renders a grid of buttons for mint, transfer, and balance operations; `Mint.tsx` provides a form to input data for minting tokens, sending the request to the `mint` function in `mint.ts` on submission; and `Transfer.tsx` includes a form for transferring tokens, which interacts with the `transfer` function in `transfer.ts` on submission. The `utils` folder handles contract function calls using the IOTA dApp kit. Finally, `App.tsx` ties everything together by rendering the `Buttons.tsx` component for the operation buttons and displaying the forms from `Balance.tsx`, `Mint.tsx`, and `Transfer.tsx` for their respective functionalities.

Reviewer: Could you rewrite this as an ordered list after line 397?

Author: Do we need to list out App.tsx also as it is on line 397.

Author: Sure

Run the following the command to setup the initial IOTA dApp.

```bash
pnpm create @iota/create-dapp
```

This will setup an initial IOTA dApp including all the necessary library.

### Code Structure

> - Components: It contains the separate react components for different operations such as check balance, minting tokens and transfer tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Components**: The components directory contains separate react components for different operations, such as checking balances, minting tokens, and transferring tokens.
